{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue191;\red96\green96\blue96;
\red0\green115\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf2 //This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 BBCutBuffer
\f1\b0 \
\
Holds data on a buffer including any segmentation (event positions). Derived from the Buffer class and has methods for choosing playback segments.\
 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Class Methods
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 *new(filename, beatlength, eventlist)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 filename
\f1\b0  - File location of a soundfile to load. Default path is to the SC3 source folder. \
    \

\f2\b beatlength
\f1\b0  - Number of beats in the soundfile, also used to estimate the source tempo in beats per second. \
\

\f2\b eventlist
\f1\b0 - Array giving a segmentation of the sound file measured in sample frames. The class can construct one for you if you pass in a granularity, ie 0.5 for eighth note cuts imposed throughout the soundfile length- see below. If left nil the default is an even segmentation in eighth notes. \
\

\f2\b *array(filenames, beatlengths, eventlists)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 filenames
\f1\b0  - Array of sound file locations to load\
    \

\f2\b beatlengths
\f1\b0  - Number of beats in the soundfile, also used to estimate the source tempo in beats per second. \
\

\f2\b eventlists
\f1\b0 - Array of Arrays of event positions. \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf0 \
\cf2 //run one line at a time\cf0 \
f= \cf3 BBCutBuffer\cf0 (\cf4 "sounds/break"\cf0 ,8);\
\
\cf3 Post\cf0  << [\cf5 \\length\cf0 ,f.length, \cf5 \\beatlength\cf0 , f.beatlength, \cf5 \\events\cf0 , f.eventstarts] << nl;\
\
\
f= \cf3 BBCutBuffer\cf0 .array([\cf4 "sounds/break"\cf0 ,\cf4 "sounds/break2"\cf0 ],[8,4],[[0,10000],[3500,6700,9000]]);\
\
f.do(\{ \cf3 arg\cf0  val; \cf3 Post\cf0  << [\cf5 \\length\cf0 ,val.length, \cf5 \\beatlength\cf0 , val.beatlength, \cf5 \\events\cf0 , val.eventstarts] << nl;\});\
\
\
\cf2 //will only select playback positions from the events list given above, using an offset choice function\cf0 \
(	\
\cf3 BBCut2\cf0 (\cf3 CutGroup\cf0 ([\cf3 CutBuf1\cf0 (f[1],\{arg buffer; buffer.eventstarts.choose\}), \cf3 CutBPF1\cf0 (1000,drqfunc:0.5)]), \cf3 ChooseCutProc\cf0 (0.125,4)).play(2)\
)\
\
\cf2 //change the event positions allowed\cf0 \
f[1].events_([10000,20000,40000]);\
\
\
}