{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue191;\red96\green96\blue96;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf2 //This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \
CutGroup
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 CutGroup.new(cutsynths, group, bus, numChannels)
\f2\b0 \
\
The CutGroup class deals with the execution graph and rendering busses on the Server. By default, a Group.new and a Bus.audio(Server.default,44100,1) will be created for you, but you may explicitly pass in Group and Bus instances. Automatically created Bus and Group objects will be freed on .free, but any passed in Group and Bus objects are the user's responsibility.   \
\
The Array of CutSynths will be rendered to the group in the order they are in the array. However, CutGroup makes subgroups for you for the source renderers (ie CutBuf1, CutStream1), the fx units (ie CutComb1, CutBRF1) and the CutMixer, to try to avoid execution order problems. It is good practise to try to anticipate problems however and put things in the order they would run from left to right. \
\
A default CutMixer will be created automatically when one is not passed in in the array of cutsynths. The default is full volume central pan stereo rendering to output bus 0 and 1.  \
\
There are .add and .remove instance methods to add and remove cutsynths from the cutgroup on the fly- see example below.\
\

\f1\b cutsynths -
\f2\b0  an Array of CutSynths, though this argument can also cope with being passed a \
CutSynth directly.\
  \

\f1\b group -
\f2\b0  A Group instance.\
\

\f1\b bus -
\f2\b0  A Bus instance.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 numChannels
\f2\b0 - If 1, rendering is mono until the final CutMixer. If 2, rendering is stereo, and there is no pan functionality in the final CutMixer. The CutMixer will automatically be configured appropriately based on the numChannels variable in the CutGroup. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\fs18 \cf0 (	\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 BBCut2\cf0 (\cf3 CutGroup\cf0 ([\cf3 CutStream1\cf0 .new,\cf3 CutBPF1\cf0 (1000,drqfunc:0.5)]), \cf3 ChooseCutProc\cf0 (0.25,4)).play(2)\
)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 //also works, but bad exemplar of execution order! source should be calculated before an fx unit\cf0 \
\cf2 //however subgroups sort this out for you.\cf0 \
(	\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 BBCut2\cf0 (\cf3 CutGroup\cf0 ([\cf3 CutBPF1\cf0 (1000,drqfunc:0.5),\cf3 CutStream1\cf0 .new]), \cf3 ChooseCutProc\cf0 (0.25,4)).play(3)\
)\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 //adding/removing cutsynths\cf0 \
(\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 var\cf0  sf, clock;\
\
clock= External\cf3 Clock\cf0 (\cf3 TempoClock\cf0 (2.5));	\
		\
clock.play;		\
		\
\cf3 Routine\cf0 .run(\{\
			\
sf= \cf3 BBCutBuffer\cf0 (\cf4 "sounds/break"\cf0 ,8);\
\
s.sync; \cf2 //this forces a wait for the Buffer to load\cf0 \
\
g=\cf3 CutGroup\cf0 (\cf3 CutBuf1\cf0 (sf));\
\
\cf3 BBCut2\cf0 (g, \cf3 WarpCutProc1\cf0 .new).play(clock);\
\});\
\
)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf2 //run these one at a time\cf0 \
g.cutsynths.postln; \cf2 //default CutMixer was added\cf0 \
\
g.add(\cf3 CutComb1\cf0 (\{\cf3 arg\cf0  i; 0.025-(i.clip2(20)*0.001)\},0.5));\
\
g.cutsynths.postln;\
\
g.add(\cf3 CutBRF1\cf0 (\{rrand(1000,5000)\},\{rrand(0.1,0.9)\},\{rrand(1.01,1.05)\}));\
\
g.cutsynths.postln;\
\
g.removeAt(2); 	\cf2 //remove comb\cf0 \
\
g.cutsynths.postln;\
\
g.removeAt(0); 	\cf2 //remove cutbuf\cf0 \
\
g.add(\cf3 CutStream1\cf0 .new) \cf2 //add in a new source, audio in\cf0 \
\
g.cutsynths.postln;\
\
\
\
}