{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf2 //This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 BBCut2 Installation\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
You need to transfer some folders from the bbcut2 distro to your SuperCollider application folder.\
\
-copy the bbcut2 classes folder into the SCClassLibrary folder\
-copy the bbcut2 help folder into the Help folder\
-copy the .scx files in bbcut2 ugens into the plugins folder\
-copy the .wav files in bbcut2 sounds into the sounds folder\
\
Now recompile your SuperCollider application (cmd+K).\
\
\
The main help page is the file BBCut2Wiki.help.rtf. Explore the help files by clicking and trying examples. \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 Using both bbcut1 and 2
\f1\b0 \
\
If you already have bbcut1 you can use both bbcut and bbcut2 on one machine, but must avoid a few class duplications:\
\
remove the bbcutprocs folder from the bbcut1 classes folder. \
remove the DDSlider.sc file from the UI subfolder of part of the bbcut1 classes folder. \
\
There are new help files for each cut procedure for the bbcut2 way of doing things. If you decide to have this new help for these cut procedures you must  discard the 'bbcutproc helpfiles' folder from bbcut1's help system. \
\
\

\f2\b bbcut2 and Linux:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \
The standard classes should work. Your problem are the .scx plugins, ie you don't get the machine listening stuff. A future solution may be found, plugin source code should be released eventually.  \
}