{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red191\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue191;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs18 \cf2 //This file is part of The BBCut Library. Copyright (C) 2001  Nick M.Collins distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License full notice in file BBCutLibrary.help\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 Segmentation
\f1\b0 \
\
GUI interface to the AnalyseEvents2 UGen that analyses events in an audio file. Will run in NRT (as fast as possible) if Server off, else RT and audible. \
\
If you turn the Server on or off after loading a soundfile there is no guarantee this will work. So please reload files whenever going between NRT and RT (ie turning Server on or off).\
\
The facilities for editing the machine discovered onsets are not extensive at the moment, sorry I don't prioritise GUI work. But this class gives you a way to run the AnalyseEvents2 UGen as an NRT operation. You can cannibalise the class code if you want to build batch analysis etc. \
\
If the Server is on and a file has been analysed in RT mode, you can play back segments (when the focus is on the window) by pressing the keys, where a=0, b=1, etc, modulo the number of segments. When there are more than 26 segments, you can use capitals to set the range offset, ie A=0-25, B=26-51, etc. \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Class Methods
\f1\b0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f2\b \cf0 *new(server)\
\
server- 
\f1\b0 Which to run on.
\f2\b  \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b0\fs18 \cf0 \
\
s=\cf3 Server\cf0 .default;
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs18 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf3 Segmentation\cf0 (s);\
}